**Quiz Questions:**

1. Scalar Data Types:
a) What is the purpose of the NUMBER data type in PL/SQL?
    a. To store large text data.
    b. To store binary data.
    c. To store numeric values.
    d. To store date and time information.
answer is c

2. Composite Data Types:
a) What does the VARRAY data type represent in PL/SQL?
    a. A variable-size array.
    b. A fixed-size array.
    c. A reference to a cursor.
    d. A collection of LOB types.

answer is a

3. Reference Data Types:
a) What is the purpose of the REF CURSOR data type in PL/SQL?
    a. To store binary data.
    b. To create references to objects in the database.
    c. To return query results from procedures and functions.
    d. To store character data.

answer is c

4. LOB Data Types:
a) Which data type is suitable for storing large amounts of character data in PL/SQL?
    a. CLOB
    b. BLOB
    c. NCLOB
    d. VARCHAR2

answer is a

5. Collection Data Types:
a) Which collection data type allows you to access elements using a unique key in PL/SQL?
    a. Nested Table
    b. VARRAY
    c. Associative Array (PL/SQL Table)
    d. REF CURSOR

answer is c

6. Scalar Data Types:
a) Which data type is used to store character data with a fixed length in PL/SQL?
    a. VARCHAR2
    b. CHAR
    c. BOOLEAN
    d. DATE

answer is b

7. Composite Data Types:
a) What is the purpose of the RECORD data type in PL/SQL?
    a. To store multiple rows of data.
    b. To create user-defined functions.
    c. To define custom data structures.
    d. To perform date and time arithmetic.

answer is c

8. Reference Data Types:
a) How does the REF data type in PL/SQL differ from a REF CURSOR?
    a. REF CURSOR is used for dynamic queries, while REF is used for referencing objects.
    b. REF is used for dynamic queries, while REF CURSOR is used for referencing objects.
    c. They are the same and can be used interchangeably.
    d. Both are used for referencing objects.

answer is a

9. LOB Data Types:
a) What is the purpose of the BFILE data type in PL/SQL?
    a. To store large text data.
    b. To store binary data.
    c. To store references to external binary files.
    d. To store large amounts of character data.

answer is c

10. Collection Data Types:
a) What happens if you try to access an element beyond the bounds of a VARRAY in PL/SQL?
    a. It raises an exception.
    b. It automatically extends the VARRAY to accommodate the new element.
    c. It discards the existing elements to make room for the new element.
    d. It returns NULL for the out-of-bounds element.

answer is a



Scalar Data Types:
Open Format: Explain the purpose of the BOOLEAN data type in PL/SQL and provide a practical example of how it can be used in a conditional statement.

Boolean özündə 2 dəyər saxlayır. True və ya False. Əgər verdiyimiz şərtlər ödənirsə true, əks halda false cavabını alırıq.

set serveroutput on
declare
    v_number1 number := 12;
    v_number2 number := 5;
    v_result boolean;
begin    
    if v_number1 > v_number2 then
    v_result :=true;

    else
    v_result:=false;

    end if;
end;

2.Composite Data Types:
Open Format: Create a Nested Table in PL/SQL named employee_skills to store the skills of five employees. Populate the Nested Table with employee names and their respective skills. Display the contents of the Nested Table.
---

3.Reference Data Types:
Open Format: Describe the differences between the REF CURSOR and the REF data types in PL/SQL and provide specific use cases where each type would be more suitable.

REF KURSOR məlumat növü sizə kursora istinad yaratmağa imkan verir. O, adətən PL/SQL-də saxlanılan prosedur və ya funksiyalardan sorğu nəticələrini qaytarmaq üçün istifadə olunur. REF KURSOR dinamik şəkildə qurulmuş SQL sorğusunun nəticə dəstini saxlaya bilər

REF məlumat növü verilənlər bazasında obyektlərə və ya sıralara istinadlar yaratmaq üçün istifadə olunur. O, mövcud obyektlərə göstəricilər yaratmağa və onlardan PL/SQL kodu daxilində istifadə etməyə imkan verir.

4.LOB Data Types:
Open Format: Explain the purpose of the CLOB data type in PL/SQL and provide a real-world use case where it would be beneficial.

BLOB məlumat növü şəkillər, audio, video və ya digər ikili məlumatları saxlamaq üçün istifadə olunur.
CLOB məlumat növü mətn sənədləri, XML məlumatları və ya digər mətn məlumatları kimi böyük həcmli xarakter məlumatlarını saxlamaq üçün istifadə olunur.
NCLOB məlumat növü CLOB-a bənzəyir, lakin o, böyük miqdarda milli xarakter dəsti məlumatlarını saxlamaq üçün istifadə olunur. Milli xarakter dəstlərinə konkret ölkə və ya regiona xas simvollar daxildir.

Bu tiplərdən istifadə edərək böyük həcmli məlumatların məlumatların təhlükəsiz formada saxlanması, axtarışı, onlara nəzarət,datada yenilənmə baş verərkən dəyişiklik tarixinin saxlanılması və s həyata keçirilir.


5.Collection Data Types:
Open Format: Compare and contrast VARRAY, Nested Table, and Associative Array (PL/SQL Table) in terms of their usage, limitations, and scenarios where each would be more appropriate.

Varray sabit ölçülü massivdir, onun olçüsü sonradan dəyiçə bilməz.Varraylar-lar ümumiyyətlə kiçik kolleksiyalar üçün daha səmərəlidir, lakin onların sabit ölçüsünə görə daha böyük kolleksiyalar üçün performans məhdudiyyətləri ola bilər.

Nested table eyni məlumat tipində ixtiyari sayda elementləri saxlaya bilən dinamik massivdir. dinamik xarakterinə görə kiçik kolleksiyalar üçün VARRAY-larla müqayisədə bir qədər yavaş performans göstərə bilər və dinamik ölçülərini dəyişmək imkanlarına görə VARRAY-lərlə müqayisədə daha çox yaddaş yeri sərf edə bilər.

 Assosiativ massivlər PL/SQL-də məlumatları açar-dəyər cütləri kimi saxlayan kolleksiyalardır və açarlar əsasında səmərəli məlumat axtarışına imkan verir. Onlar PL/SQL bloku daxilində axtarışlar, məlumatların müvəqqəti saxlanması, qruplaşdırılması və indeksləşdirilməsi üçün faydalıdır.Assosiativ massiv daxili cədvəllərdə və VARRAY-larda olduğu kimi ardıcıl tam ədədlərlə deyil, unikal açarla indeksləşdirilmiş elementlər toplusudur. 
